If you woke up chained to a pipe in a grungy
bathroom with another man, and were told that
if you killed him you would be set free, but
if you didn’t, you and your family would
die, what would you do?
In this highly requested How to Beat video,
we’ll follow Jigsaw’s victims, see if
we can make better decisions, and ultimately
attempt to beat the traps in, Saw.
If you think you could do better, or if you
have a movie request, let me know in the comments.
If you want to stay prepared for all the other
worst case scenarios movies can come up with,
hit the like, notification bell, and subscribe
buttons so you don’t miss a beat.
Alright, let’s see
if
we can outsmart Jigsaw and his traps.
We start out following John Kramer, more infamously
known as Jigsaw.
He and his lovely assistant, Amanda, are setting
up Lawrence and Adam’s game.
Their game is pretty simple, make sure the
other person dies, with the asymmetric twist
that Adam was a private investigator hired
to snoop on Lawrence, but Lawrence doesn’t
know who Adam is.
It’s honestly not spicy of a relationship.
Does Jigsaw really think Adam’s legitimate
profession is going to incite Lawrence to
murder him?
Come on man, you can do better.
Amanda shackles both Lawrence and Adam, places
each of their instructional cassette tapes
in their pockets, puts Adam in the tub along
with the keys to their shackles, and then
turns the faucet on.
Jigsaw puts the finishing touches on his mask
and pours the fake blood on the floor where
he is going to act as a suicide victim holding
the two primary game elements.
The revolver and cassette recorder.
Jigsaw looks at the mirror and says, “It’s
time to start our game“, then injects himself
with a sedative to slow his heart rate and
breathing, before lying down in the blood.
We don’t see it here, but Jigsaw also palmed
a remote for tasers hooked up to Adam and
Lawrence’s shackles as a defense if they
get keen.
Amanda completes the setup by turning off
the lights and locking the door, sealing them
all in.
Before the game officially begins, we need
to back up for a second.
See, Lawrence and Adam aren’t the only victims
here.
When Jigsaw was looking into the mirror saying,
“It’s time to start our game,” he wasn’t
talking to himself.
It was a two-way mirror with a camera behind
it operated by Zep.
Unlike Amanda, Zep isn’t an assistant or
apprentice.
He was given a cassette tape outlining how
Jigsaw had injected him with a slow-acting
poison which only Jigsaw had the antidote
for.
If Zep wanted to live, he needed to play his
part in Lawrence and Adam’s game, which
meant abducting Lawrence’s family and killing
them if Lawrence didn’t kill Adam by 6pm.
At the moment Jigsaw looked into the mirror
and told Zep to begin, Zep was watching from
offsite at Lawrence’s house with his family
tied up.
Zep is a certified sick fuck who gets off
on hearing the increased heart rate of his
victims when he waves a gun in their face,
and Zep might have been promised a position
at Team Jigsaw if he pulled this off.
Like Amanda, who was one of the rare escapees
of Jigsaw’s traps.
However, the amount of people who would take
that offer after being poisoned and forced
to abduct and kill an innocent family is slim
at best.
I think he has far stronger reasons to put
Jigsaw down and claim the trophy for it.
Zep is in a position of extreme power here.
He knows who Jigsaw and his apprentice are,
Jigsaw is currently incapacitated, and as
we later see, Zep has the location and access
to the bathroom where all this is going down.
Zep can just message the details to Detective
Tapp and it’s game over for Jigsaw and Amanda.
The slow-acting poison in his system isn’t
a problem.
John Kramer isn’t a toxicologist.
It’s not like he developed some revolutionary,
unheard of poison.
Zep should be able to go to a hospital or
poison control center and get treated for
it if there is an antidote.
The game is like 8 hours long, so he might
as well go see if they can treat him before
being forced to end an innocent family’s
lives.
Of course he’d have to sedate the wife and
daughter while he checked so they didn’t
run off, because in the event the hospital
staff can’t treat you, well, the family
is gonna have to go bye bye so you can get
that sweet antidote.
Now, even if the hospital couldn’t treat
the poison in your blood, the antidote or
atleast how to make the antidote might be
found in Jigsaw’s home and computer hard
drives.
Risky, maybe, but I’d say it's less risky
than trusting the asshole who poisoned you
in the first place.
At the very least, Zep should be using his
position behind the camera to stockpile evidence
against John Kramer and Amanda that could
be used to blackmail Jigsaw if his game goes
sideways.
Man, this makes Jigsaw look pretty stupid.
He shouldn’t have chosen to victimize someone
who knew him so well, and shouldn’t have
given him the location of the game.
Zep doesn’t consider these options, so the
game begins.
In Adam’s panicky awakening, he unwittingly
kicks the drain plug open and the key to his
shackle gets sucked down the drain.
Natural, probable, and very unlucky.
Amanda and Jigsaw had to know that the key
would likely go down the drain without Adam
even realizing it was there in the first place.
That’s just poor game design.
It’s immediately clear this is a bad situation.
This isn’t some state of the art containment
cell to house hot pick-pocketer women for
some handsome billionaire’s pet AI project
where you get to play mobile puzzle games
all day and make friends with cheeky robots.
You’re a whiny dork chained up in a rusty
basement with a bonesaw next to you.
The really thin silver lining is that you’re
still breathing.
If your abductor wanted you dead, you’d
already be dead.
Lawrence turns on the lights which reveals
the bloody corpse in the middle of the room.
To them, it looks like this corpse was another
victim who committed suicide with the revolver
and left his dear loved ones note on his recorder.
If they took a minute to analyze the situation,
they’d realize the corpse is actually very
strange.
Why was a man initially left in here unshackled
with a loaded gun?
What compelled him to supposedly kill himself?
Why was his dead body and the loaded gun left
here with Adam and Lawrence?
Perhaps the strangest aspect of it from their
POV is the crafted appearance of a supposed
suicide.
Any blood splatter analyst would tell you
that this was no suicide.
What this corpse is amateurly dolled up to
look like is a standing person shooting themselves
in the head, falling to the ground with the
pistol and recorder in hand, and blood pooling
out from the hole in their head.
This didn’t happen.
If it did, blood and brains would have splattered
onto the adjacent walls.
Then, when his lifeless corpse fell, the gun
and recorder would have fallen or gotten knocked
out of his hands.
From what I've read about suicides, yes, I
went there, a victim would rarely be found
holding the pistol they used on themselves
because their bodies immediately go flaccid
upon death.
Rigor mortis only kicks in after being dead
for a while.
It would be extremely weird and improbable
that he would’ve laid flat out face down
on the ground before shooting himself in the
head.
Even if he did, the blast from that .357 Magnum
Smith and Wesson Model 686 would have directionally
propelled blood and brain a good distance
outwards.
There is some directionality to the blood,
but it’s jutting out on the same side he’s
holding the gun.
The blood should be spraying the opposite
direction.
You could say that I watch too much Dexter
and that it’s unrealistic for them to know
this, but Lawrence is a surgical oncologist.
He should have some general knowledge on this.
All this begs the question, why dress up a
corpse as a suicide victim and put it in the
room with them.
Hell, is this corpse even a corpse.
They don’t know the actual cause of death,
so this man could be alive.
It shouldn’t be too hard to check.
All they’d need to do is crawl as close
to him as possible and check for torso expansion.
If this man’s alive, he’ll be breathing.
Even shallow breaths should be visible.
They could also throw a toilet seat at him
to cause a little pain as a jump starter or
to get a reaction, but considering they don’t
know who this is, and that he has a gun, I’d
play my cards closer to chest and go with
the former strategy.
Lawrence notices that there’s a brand new
clock on the wall, and remarks that it must
have been intentionally placed there for them
to tell time.
Right now it’s unclear why, but what is
clear is that this isn’t a normal abduction.
At least to Lawrence.
Your foot is chained to a pipe in a derelict
bathroom with a corpse in the middle of the
room, I have a feel you’re going to be wishing
you woke up on ice with a kidney missing.
And I highly doubt Kidney thieves use eBay.
Lawrence’s next move is to try the door.
It’s low effort so you might as well check
before doing something crazy.
Unsurprisingly, it doesn’t budge.
Even if it did, there’s still the whole
shackle thing to contend with.
Adam finds a cassette tape in his pocket labeled
play me.
Lawrence checks his pockets and finds one
too, with the addition of a small key and
a single .357 magnum bullet.
The key doesn’t work on his shackle so he
tosses it to Adam.
Which doesn’t work on his shackle either.
Clearly they’re missing important information
which will be found on their tapes.
They’re going to need to confiscate the
corpse’s cassette recorder to hear how screwed
they really are.
Adam cleverly uses his shirt and the drain
plug to retrieve the recorder and play his
tape.
It’s apparent now that his captor knows
him intimately, chose him based on his flaws,
and is presenting a situation that will require
him to overcome them.
The captor is alluding to how Adam has pathetically
been a silent bystander, capturing other people’s
follys from the sideline with no skin in the
game.
I mean, a private investigator is a legitimate
career that has constructive utility.
It’s not like Adam was one of those assholes
who video’s people drowning in floodwaters
to get 15 minutes of e-fame instead of trying
to help.
I guess you can’t expect someone who designs
torture dungeons to have a strong moral code.
Adam’s game is weird, because you’d think
based on his targeted character flaw he would
be instructed to sacrifice himself in some
way in order to help Lawrence survive.
But nope.
All he gets is, ‘watch yourself die, or
do something about it.’
Not wanting to risk breaking the recorder
by throwing it to Lawrence, he tells Lawrence
to just throw him the tape.
What would happen if they accidentally broke
the recorder or Lawrence beefed his toss and
it went down the bath drain too?
Would Jigsaw get up, sigh in disappointment,
and just headshot both of them for being morons?
I’d like to think so.
Adam pops Lawrence’s tape in and hits play.
Well, there’s your reason for the brand
new clock.
You have 8 hours to kill Adam, or your family
is murdered and you're left here to decompose.
It’s a good thing Adam’s key went down
the drain.
If he had initially helped unshackle Lawrence,
Lawrence would easily be able to grab the
gun, shoot Adam, and win the game.
Both Adam and Lawrence’s strategies for
winning the game and surviving are antagonistic
to one another.
Jigsaw was pretty explicit: Adam needs to
prevent Lawrence from killing him before 6pm,
and Lawrence needs to kill Adam by 6pm.
I don’t see any out of the box way of beating
this, so following the instructions on the
tape is the only real option.
Adam should feign helping Lawrence find a
way out of here, but refrain from actually
helping him in any manner because ultimately
it will come down to Lawrence using whatever
he has to kill Adam and save his family.
Likewise, Lawrence needs to feign that he
is empathetic and has no interest in killing
Adam in order to recruit his help in solving
the clues, like the ‘follow your heart’
Jigsaw softly muttered on the tape.
This one wasn’t too hard, as there’s a
toilet with a big heart on it written in feces.
Adam digs his hand around the shit-filled
bowl and comes up empty and brown-handed before
realizing that he should have checked the
top compartment first.
In it, there’s a bag with two hand-saws
and the incriminating photographs Adam took
of Lawrence’s affair.
Adam neglects to share those with Lawrence.
No need to stir conflict or give Lawrence
any more information that he could use against
you.
Adam pulls the saws out and tosses Lawrence
the spare.
Shouldn’t have done that.
You know that saw isn’t cutting through
those shackles or padlocks, you know the corpse
in the middle has a gun which Lawrence has
a bullet for, and you know Lawrence’s sole
mission is to kill you.
When that clock starts ticking down to 6pm,
he will use that saw on his foot, grab the
gun, and kill you to save his own ass and
family.
Maybe you don’t want to overtly be antagonistic
to Lawrence, in which case you could just
try the saw on your shackle and demonstrate
how it won’t help them and he doesn’t
need one.
You could try to saw through the rusty pipe
the shackles tied around, but with how old
and shitty those saws are, I don’t think
that would work at all.
They both give up on sawing through the shackles,
and Lawrence tells Adam he thinks he knows
who their captor is.
He says that months ago he was a suspect in
the Jigsaw case, which we’re going to flashback
to.
In the flashback, the police are investigating
the shredded remains of Jigsaw’s latest
victim.
He also had a cassette tape on him outlining
the rules for the game.
This big fella panic dove belly first into
the razor wire and started flailing around
when he got stuck.
The flailing caused the razors to rip deep
into his flesh.
So deep, that his stomach acid was found on
the ground.
Within minutes he was dead from blood loss.
The best way to beat this trap is to do the
opposite of what he did, and go low and slow.
It’s hard to tell how big the cage maze
is, but it doesn’t seem that big and with
two hours he should have enough time to slowly
navigate them.
By getting low he removes an entire attack
surface he could get cut from.
I’m not sure whether you’d want to crawl
face up or face down.
Even though crawling face down mitigates exposure
to your most vulnerable areas like your neck
arteries, stomach, and groin..
You’re going to get caught up with razors
sinking into your back, and it will be very
difficult to pull them out with your hands.
With how slow you can go, I’d be inclined
to go face up, shoulder crawling and using
my hands to relocate the razor wires out and
around my body as best as possible.
Doing nothing isn’t an option.
I’m sure his family will report him missing,
but it’s highly unlikely the police will
find him within the 7-10 days it will take
for him to die of dehydration.
I don’t think the police will have many
leads to go off of in this case.
Jigsaw probably just read this guys suicide
attempt in the news and threw him into an
unmarked van before placing him in this trap.
Lawrence interrupts the flashback with a stupid
monologue, saying that Jigsaw wasn’t really
a murderer, that technically he never killed
anyone, that he found ways for people to kill
themselves.
I’m pretty sure you’d still be tried as
a murderer.
Judge, I only stripped them down naked, imprisoned
them in an underground maze of razor wire
under a time constraint, which they need to
reach the exit by or it will be sealed off
and they will be left to starve to death.
They basically killed themselves by choice.
The next crime scene the police show up to
is that of a charred corpse in a room of glass
with a vault in the middle and red numbers
painted all over the walls.
He too has a cassette tape.
So this guy was murdered for playing Hookie?
Oh, sorry, I mean, so because this guy played
hookie, he was lawfully relocated into a situation
which happened to be potentially dangerous,
in which he somehow found a way to kill himself?
That’s one of the lamest reasons for killing
someone I've heard.
Literally everyone has done this at least
once in their lives.
Maybe this poor guy needed a mental health
day and his employer was a raging dick.
How did Jigsaw even find this guy?
Did he explicitly go out looking for someone
who called in sick too much.
What is too much, because like we said, everyone
does this from time to time.
Did Jigsaw just follow a guy who was out walking
in the park during the workday and see if
he was calling in sick.
Or did he get a job somewhere just to find
someone who called in sick too much.
What the fuck is Jigsaw doing.
There is absolutely zero shortage of criminals
and downright horrible people walking free.
Why not choose them.
Like the man in the razorwire, this guy panicked,
started frantically running around with the
candle, and caught the tip of the flame.
The best way to beat this trap is again, taking
your time, methodically trying each combination
in order so you don’t repeat or miss a combination.
Most slow acting poisons will give you hours
if not days before you succumb to them.
You should have plenty of time.
The room seems well lit enough to where you
don’t need to wave the candle in front of
your face in order to see the numbers.
Using the candle just unnecessarily risks
combustion of the flammable ectoplasmic goo
you're covered in.
The glass on the floor shouldn’t be a problem
either considering you have shoes on.
The most difficult aspect of this trap is
the vault itself.
We have no idea if it’s a 3 or 4 combination
lock, so the possible combinations we need
to try just doubled.
Not only that, but if you aren’t familiar
with these combination locks you won’t know
how to clear the combination, which direction
you need to turn the dial for each combination
number, and how many times to pass each combination
number before stopping on it.
I mean shit, I didn’t realize they were
this complicated until I looked into it.
Since the vault is only carrying an antidote
and shouldn’t be too heavy, I might opt
to cradle it and use it as a battering ram
against the brick wall.
Most brick walls, especially old ones like
in this room will start to crumble under repeated
assault.
It’d take some time, but not more than trying
a thousand combinations which may or may not
work.
It’s more of a sure bet in my opinion.
Jigsaw might have had a loose connection with
the razor wire guy, but Mr. Hookie is a different
story.
In order to know that this guy was calling
in sick all the time, Jigsaw would have either
had to be working with him or had access to
his cell phone records where he could find
out that this guy was calling in sick and
not just taking PTO.
The police should be cross-checking everyone
at his work, in his recent personal life,
and who had records or phone taps on him.
The biggest breakthrough, almost suspiciously
so, is the penlight Jigsaw supposedly left
behind.
They run the prints and find the penlights
owner, which is none other than Dr. Lawrence
Gordon.
Lawrence was working on John Kramer’s brain
tumour situation when the police arrived and
questioned him about how his penlight ended
up at a murder scene.
He gives them his alibi of going to a seedy
motel to have an affair with a med student
that night, which checks out.
An alibi could be faked pretty easily, especially
for a mastermind such as Jigsaw, but if Lawrence
wasn’t Jigsaw, then whoever Jigsaw is or
worked with visited this hospital in order
to grab the penlight.
The police should be investigating anyone
who might have come into contact with Lawrence.
Janitors, doctors, patients, orderlies, everyone.
As well as the camera footage looking for
any suspicious behavior or anyone swiping
Lawrences gear.
Since we know that Jigsaw always has a relatively
deep connection with his targets, it would
likely be an employee or frequent patient.
The detectives should run the audio of the
previous victim’s tapes past Lawrence to
see if he recognized the voice and could make
a connection.
While a voice masker was applied, it’s not
done sufficiently enough to separate the man
from the voice.
I’m pretty confident Lawrence could identify
this as John Kramer, and the ensuing investigations
would have uncovered his side hustle.
After much deliberation, I can’t think of
any rational reason for Jigsaw framing Lawrence,
bringing a ton of police attention to him,
and then using him as a victim in his next
trap.
This was a high risk low reward move that
provided the police with leads they could
follow back to him.
I get that Jigsaw’s not overly concerned
with discretion, as he leaves his victims
mangled corpses in the traps for the police
to find, and uses his Jigsaw calling card
to gain notoriety and spread his twisted social
justice message as far as possible, but this
poor frame job easily could have ended his
career.
Calling card or not, the most successful serial
killers target completely random people they
haven’t established any connection with.
The police ask Lawrence to listen to the testimony
of a woman named Amanda that had escaped a
trap Jigsaw put her in to see if it jogs his
memory about the penlight, and to gauge his
reaction to seeing the victim.
Amanda starts telling her story of waking
up with a metal contraption on her head and
Jigsaw breaking the bad news.
He tells her that the device is hooked into
her upper and lower jaws, and when the timer
at the back goes off, her mouth will be permanently
ripped open.
Like a reverse bear trap.
He’s nice enough to give a demonstration:
He then goes on to say that there is one key
to unlock the device, but it’s in the stomach
of her dead cellmate.
Amanda, as all do and justifiably so, panics,
tries to rip her restraints off and take the
reverse bear trap off her head.
Getting up pulled a pin on the jawbreaker
and initiated the countdown.
There really was no way to know that would
happen or prevent it.
Even if she did try to turn around and assess
her situation calmly, the wire was short enough
that it would have pulled regardless.
Jigsaw never told her how much time she had,
but the ticking sound every second...
...would strongly suggest to her that she
has less than 60 seconds to grab the knife
and start digging through the corpse for the
key.
Only the dead man isn't dead.
Amanda doesn’t have a choice here.
She’s seconds away from getting her head
cracked wide open.
It’s do or die.
You or him.
The aggressive fist stabs aren’t the way
to go with a scalpel, she’s just causing
excessive hemorrhaging and mashing up the
guts into an unrecognizable mess.
She needs to create a large circular incision
to remove the layer of skin over the top right
of his upper abdomen so she can actually identify
and locate the stomach.
And that is important.
The stomach is in the upper right area of
your abdomen right around your lower ribs,
not your belly, that’s where your intestines
are.
If you fucked that up you just died.
Once the stomach is located, she just needs
to create another incision to open it up and
snag the key to unlock the headpiece and throw
it off.
The police tell Lawrence that even though
Jigsaw said that the man with the key in his
stomach was dead, and even though Jigsaw said
he wasn’t lying, the man was alive, just
doped up on enough opiates to where he couldn’t
move or feel anything.
It’s fucked up, but.. it could have been
a lot worse for both of them.
He could have been strapped to a chair completely
sober.
He got to go out feeling calm, relaxed, and
in a state of euphoria.
We never hear why this guy was murdered by
Jigsaw.
He never had a chance at survival, which seems
really unfair and unsportsmanlike.
The police also mention that Amanda was a
drug addict before all this, and maybe that’s
why she was chosen.
Yah, it’s kind of a mystery because this
trap didn’t exhibit the previous theme of
overcoming personal flaws.
It was almost like he came up with this cool
head contraption and wanted to find any excuse
to put it on someone for his twisted amusement.
Okay, maybe it was more of a ‘choose life’
thing and the drugged man was a representation
of her on drugs, but it’s still ridiculous.
The lifelong PTSD caused by this is not going
to improve her drug addiction whatsoever.
Why am I even still on this, Jigsaw is clearly
not in the business of rehabilitation.
Sure, Amanda said Jigsaw helped her, but we
all know that’s not true.
I mean, the sheer fact that she said killing
someone and almost getting her jaw removed
from her head helped her, is evidence that
it didn’t help her.
Quite the opposite.
In fact, if I was the detective I’d be trailing
this broad.
From Tapps perspective, her Stockholm syndrome
coupled with a psycho like Jigsaw’s infatuation
with his victims, especially the rare ones
that escape, means there’s a chance she
will lead them to him.
We know from the beginning that Amanda was
helping Jigsaw set the game up, so realistically,
trailing her could very well have led them
to Jigsaw.
The important piece of information that Lawrence
can use from this trip down memory lane is
that it is possible to be free if you win
the game, even though Jigsaw lied about some
aspects of the game.
Adam then picks up a piece of glass and realizes
it’s actually a two way mirror, so he chucks
a bunch of scrap at the bathroom mirror and
breaks it which uncovers the hidden camera
recording them.
Why even hide the camera in the first place,
if by design the victims know it’s a game
and they’re being watched to see if they
achieve their goals.
And if you were going to hide a camera for
whatever reason, why would you leave extra
fragments of two way mirror glass on the ground?
With the clock ticking down, Lawrence realizes
he needs to start playing the game or bad
shits going to happen to him and his family.
He remembers that Jigsaw mentioned in the
tape that there are numerous ways for him
to win, and that X marks the spot for the
treasure.
He asks Adam to help him find the X under
the context of it being beneficial to them
both finding a way out of here.
Remember, this is a last man standing game
with no successful cooperative strategy.
Adam should know that he would literally be
helping Lawrence obtain a way to kill him.
Adam comes across as impulsive and naive,
so I don’t think this was a calculated move.
It was a great move though, because it distracted
Lawrence into spending precious time reminiscing
about his family instead of making progress
without seeming too obvious that Adam is trying
to stall him.
In his flashback to the night of his abduction,
he was working late when his daughter came
to him scared of a bad man in her closet.
I know kids have overactive imaginations and
it’s probably nothing, but I’d be grabbing
the 9mm from the nightstand.
Lawrence doesn’t check the closet, he just
tells her a bedtime story before getting paged
for an ‘emergency’.
He neglects to check his wallet for clues,
even though every possession was included
for a reason, and passes it to Adam to show
him pictures of his wife and daughter.
Only the picture of his wife was replaced
with a picture of them captive with a note
on the back reading, “X marks the spot,
sometimes you see more with your eyes shut.”
Instead of telling Lawrence, he just says
it’s not here and throws the wallet back
to him.
Maybe Adam is more devious than he appears.
This was another solid move that took a clue
out of Lawrences hands without being obvious
about it.
We get some more backstory on the night Lawrence
was abducted.
After he left to bang his hot med student,
his family was subdued and tied up by the
man in the closet that Lawrence didn’t check.
If only Lawrence was paranoid and armed, actually
checked the closet, and gunned down Zep.
Now his family is tied up with Zep getting
off to their increased heart rate when he
waves a pistol in their face.
Zep then parts the curtains and shoves his
face up to the window to I guess check if
anyone called the cops?
He does have a reason to be paranoid.
Lawrence was under investigation after Jigsaw
framed him with the penlight he stole.
But for that same reason, bare facing the
window the police are possibly watching is
a bad idea.
Detective Tapp was staking out Lawrence, and
was able to snap a picture of Zep peeping
his head out.
It was a bad photo and maybe he couldn’t
identify the person with it alone, but Tapp
can use this opportunity to tail him when
he leaves, or confront Lawrence with this
evidence as well as cross-check it with anyone
Lawrence had frequent contact with at the
hospital.
The frame job was 5 months ago, so why is
Tapp so unrelenting in staking out Lawrence’s
house.
Did he literally get nothing from looking
at the connection between Jigsaw and the hospital?
Or did he just not check and tunnel vision
on the target of the obvious frame job?
Yah, probably the latter.
Looks like we are going to find out in this
flashback inside a flashback to just after
Tapp questioned Lawrence and dropped him off
at home.
Later that night when Tapp was reviewing the
tapes he recognized a gang sign on the wall,
and he heard a fire alarm in the background
of the tape.
By cross-checking the gang sign location with
what fire department responded to an emergency
that night, they were able to locate an old
mannequin factory which they believed is where
Jigsaw’s operation was.
Anxious to bag Jigsaw, these wannabe action
heroes load up and bust down the front door
without any information, planning or backup.
Hastily rolling on a guy that’s known for
making traps isn’t the smartest idea.
Instead of breaking in right off the bat,
maybe stake it out first.
Tail whoever comes and goes, get their license
plate, visual profile, home address, and get
a proper warrant.
Then once Jigsaw enters the building, you
can send in SWAT teams who are vastly better
trained and equipped to bag someone like this.
Inside the factory there are dioramas of traps
and a man locked up in between two drill bits.
This is Jigsaw’s operation, all right.
Someone starts coming up the elevator so they
hide to try and ambush him.
Tapp and Sing get the drop on Jigsaw, but
all the sudden become good cops that want
to do things the right way.
They broke in without a warrant at night,
Tapps hungry for vengeance, this dude is clearly
the bad guy.
It’s not unreasonable for them in their
position to shoot first and ask questions
later.
Especially since Jigsaw is the slippery mastermind
and you're on his turf.
At least kneecap him.
Great, now Jigsaw triggered the trap and this
poor guy is going to get frankensteined in
under 30 seconds.
Tapp has every possible right to blast this
guy right here right now.
As for the victim, Sing doesn’t need to
find the keys, he just needs to find the power
cable and shoot it.
Or just shoot the padlock off.
Tapp really needs to get some distance between
him and Jigsaw so this doesn’t end in a
tug of war for the gun.
Damnit Tapp, all you had to do was keep him
at arms length or put a hole in his pelvis.
Now Jigsaw’s getting away and you’re on
the ground with your throat slit.
Sing runs after Jigsaw and fires some buckshot
into his back.
It looks like a killshot, but at this point,
I’d pump a few more shots off into his corpse
to confirm the kill.
Don’t want him scurrying away or flipping
around with a gun.
Again, there is every reason to suspect that
a mastermind who designs human traps for a
living will have booby trapped in his own
operation in case he was compromised like
this.
Sing tunnel visions on the hooded man and
accidentally trips one of them.
Tapp tries to help, but only gets there in
time to see Sing’s headless body and Jigsaw
getting away.
This would explain his unrelenting desire
to track down Jigsaw, and why he was taken
off the force, but it doesn’t explain why
he’s tracking Lawrence so aggressively.
The hooded man's voice and figure simply don’t
match up.
I also have a hard time believing that the
ensuing police raid didn’t yield any usable
evidence.
All these flashbacks cost Lawrence a lot of
time.
He now has just over 2 hours remaining to
kill Adam.
Better start looking for that X unless you
wanna lose a leg.
Adam, remembering what the picture said, comes
up with the idea to turn the lights off, which
reveals a glow in the dark painted X that
was charged by the lights being on.
Behind the X there’s a box.
It’s padlocked so Adam tosses the key back
to Lawrence so he can open it.
Adam.
Why are you helping Lawrence?
He has to kill you or him and his family die,
remember?
The box contains a note, cell phone, lighter
and cigarette.
Lawrence secretly reads the note which says,
“The cigarettes are harmless, I promise.
Smoking is only poisonous when it ends in
bloodshed.
Think about this, you don’t need a gun to
kill Adam.”
Adam foolishly wants to smoke the cigarette
regardless of the fact that it’s a blatantly
horrible decision.
This method of Lawrence winning the game was
obviously devised to play on Adam’s cigarette
addiction.
The phone wasn’t mentioned in the note,
though.
Lawrence tries calling 911 with it, but the
phone was altered to only be able to receive
calls, not make them.
The tampered phone somehow rings a bell for
Lawrence and sparks another flashback to the
night he was abducted.
He was finishing up at the ‘hospital’
and walking back to his car when he got the
feeling someone was watching him.
That feeling was triggered by Adam moronically
leaving the flash on in a dark parking light
while snapping ninja pictures of Lawrence.
Lawrence hops into his Beamer and tries to
make a phone call.
His cell doesn’t work so he stops to try
the pay phone.
Which doesn’t work either.
While he’s distracted someone in a pig mask
sneaks out of his car and runs up on him.
Why didn't the pigman piano wire his neck
while he was in the car?
Abducting someone out in the open without
a quick getaway is much riskier..
Just sayin.
I still don’t like the backseat abduction
technique though.
If your target has half a brain or decent
peripherals they are going to check the backseat
before getting in and they will see you.
Especially if you’re a dumbass wearing a
pig mask and red suit.
I can just see Jigsaw tucked into the backseat
trying to scrunch in low, hearing a knock
on the window and wondering if Lawrence saw
him or just accidentally hit the window.
He slowly turns around and looks up to see
Lawrence with a pistol waving for him to step
out of his vehicle.
After wasting more time storytelling, Lawrence
asks Adam how he knew to turn the lights off.
Adam hesitates to answer at first, but eventually
gives in and hands over the picture of his
captive wife and daughter with the note on
the back.
Good going Adam, you just provided massive
motivation for Lawrence to kill you.
Yes, Lawrence already heard on the cassette
tape that his family was in jeopardy, but
it wasn’t as real until now.
Lawrence remembers the tape which said that
the man in the middle had poison in his blood,
and the note from the box that said that cigarettes
are only deadly when they ‘end in bloodshed’.
Putting 2 and 2 together, he secretly dabs
the cigarette that Adam was desperate to smoke
in the corpse's poison filled blood.
Great!
Lawrence doesn’t need to chop his foot off
to get the gun to kill Adam with.
He can just toss the cig and lighter over
to Adam, watch him slowly die, win the game,
and save him and his family.
From the flashbacks, he knows that this will
end badly for him if he doesn’t win, and
that winning is an option.
Instead of playing his hand, he sacrifices
it by flipping the lights off and secretly
telling Adam all about the death sticks and
the charade he’s planning.
Lawrence’s plan is to have Adam fake smoke
the poison cigarette and fake die so Lawrence
can fake win, and when their captor comes
in to free Lawrence, they can kill him and
then ride off into the sunset on their ivory
stallions.
This is a massively flawed plan.
If your captor has a decent microphone or
a camera with night mode, he will hear and
see every detail.
Even if he’s using a shitty camera and mic,
which he stupidly is, you still don’t know
what type of poison was put in the blood,
nor what it’s effects are and how long these
effects take to kick in.
Without knowing what type of poison was used,
Adam couldn’t possibly sell the fake death.
And you can be sure Adam is going to do a
horrible job acting this whole thing out anyways.
Lawrence flips the lights back on and starts
the show.
If I was Adam, I still wouldn’t trust Lawrence.
He didn’t have to tell you about the poison,
so he’s probably being honest, but you could
fake smoke it instead of taking a full drag
on it.
Adam’s faking is ridiculous.
Nobody’s buying that shit.
Jigsaw uses his taser remote to shock Adam
so Zep could see that Lawrence didn’t actually
win the game yet.
Should have given him the actual poison.
The shock jolted Adams' memory about his abduction,
or so he says.
I think he’s just reverting to stalling
Lawrence because his plan failed and now he’s
going to have to try to kill Adam.
Adam starts telling the story of how he woke
up in his dark room with the power out, then
heard some strange noises in his living room
which he went to check out.
Really Jigsaw?
You put your doll on his couch with a halloween
noisemaker?
Why?
You didn’t even use that as a distraction
to nab him from behind.
Adam hears someone making noise in the closet
and grabs a bat to check it out.
If I was Adam I’d be leaving my apartment
right now and calling the cops.
Why would you, a weak, unarmed, untrained
person willingly engage in a hand to hand
fight with an intruder.
It’s not going to end well for you.
Adam’s not the only idiot here.
Hiding in someone's closet and making a bunch
of noise to bait them to open said closet
is a terrible way to abduct someone.
You have no escape route if things go south,
like if the other person brought friends over,
they had a knife or a gun, or they called
the cops and waited outside the apartment.
By the time Adam wraps his story up, Lawrence
has 23 minutes left on the clock.
He doesn’t seem motivated to start hacking
away at his foot yet.
No matter, part of Zep’s instructions was
to call Lawrence and have his wife and daughter
give him some motivation.
His daughter tells him a man has them tied
up with a gun, and his wife tells him not
to believe Adam’s lies.
That Adam knows him.
Lawrence wastes more time confronting Adam
about his lies.
Does it even matter what Adam has to say?
You know what you need to do.
Adam should just be honest about being hired
to tail Lawrence as a private investigator.
Sure, it’ll piss Lawrence off, but it doesn’t
give him any more reason to kill you than
he already has.
It actually helps Adam by wasting more of
Lawrence’s time.
Adam flicks the pictures he took of Lawrence’s
affair at him and says he was stalking Lawrence
the night he was abducted, but had left when
Lawrence got in his car, so he didn’t see
who abducted him.
Lawrence questions Adam about who hired him,
thinking that that must be the person who
put them in here.
Adam says that he was hired by a tall black
man with a scar on his neck.
Lawrence immediately figures this was Agent
Tapp.
Tapp must have hired Adam because Lawrence
had a restraining order on him and couldn’t
get close.
After their fight, Adam double-takes one of
his pictures, realizing there's a face in
it.
You just now remember that you took a picture
of some random guy at Lawrence’s house the
night before you both were abducted?
He throws it to Lawrence who identifies the
man as Zep, the orderly from the hospital.
Why was this picture of Zep at Lawrence’s
house placed in the bathroom?
Now Lawrence and Adam both know who Zep is.
If either of them win and get free, they will
report Zep to the police, who will report
John Kramer to the police.
Zep is in a game he can’t win.
He either dies from poisoning, or gets thrown
in the slammer.
Zep could choose to complete the game, get
the antidote, and flee to a non-extradition
country.
Or, he could immediately report Jigsaw to
the police and check himself into a hospital.
When Zep isn’t looking, Lawrence’s wife
slips her restraints and patiently waits for
her moment to strike.
Lawrence fails to kill Adam and is now officially
out of time.
He knows from the previous Jigsaw cases that
Jigsaw doesn’t fuck around.
His family will be executed and he will be
left in here to rot.
Zep draws his 1911, and then gives Lawrence
one last call so he can hear his wife telling
him he failed before she catches a bullet
in her teeth.
Jigsaw, you sadistic son of a bitch.
The call is a nice touch, but telegraphing
your blatant intention to kill the wife and
daughter in front of their faces like this
is just going to incite a ferocious last stand.
It’s better for you if they don’t see
it coming.
His other mistake was leaving them in a room
by themselves with poorly tied rope restraints.
If you’re going to do that, at least check
the restraints every time you re-enter the
room to make sure they didn’t slip them.
Lawrence gets the call.
Alison tells him that he failed, but right
before Zep domes her she snatches his gun
from him.
Unfortunately she lacks the nerve to kill,
and makes the all too common mistake of getting
within arms reach which gives Zep the opportunity
to grab for the gun back.
Good thing Tapp heard the shots, because Alison’s
losing control over the gun.
In a last ditch move she shanks his leg with
a pair of hair clippers.
Why the hell does everyone always go for the
leg.
The same thing happened in my last video on
The Hills Have Eyes, and look how well that
worked for Lynn.
People, you need to go for the throat.
Instead of capitalizing on Zep being stunned,
she runs for her daughter.
Alison, you need to stomp out Zep when he’s
down.
Priorities.
Your daughter being freed won't help if Zep
gets up and guns you both down.
Lucky for her, Tapp comes in guns hot before
Zep can finish the job.
Tapp runs out of ammo and tackles Zep to the
ground.
Zep stuns Tapp with a flower vase to the head
and runs after Alison and her daughter.
Why is nobody seizing the kill when they have
the chance.
It would take 2 seconds to put one in Tapps
chest before running after the family.
Zep can’t find Alison and her daughter,
so he runs back to the warehouse to kill Lawrence.
His plan is really falling apart here.
I don’t think he’s going to be getting
that antidote anymore.
Tapp tracks Zep to the warehouse in the most
legit car chase I’ve ever seen.
They get into a scuffle, which ends with Zep
shooting Tapp in the chest.
Alison and her daughter safely emerge from
their hiding spot, but the problem is that
all Lawrence heard on the phone was gunshots
and screaming.
For all he knows, they got mowed down.
He breaks down crying and gets electrocuted
until he foams at the mouth.
Why was he electrocuted?
I get shocking Adam for fake dying, but this
seemed unnecessary.
Alison calls back on the phone to tell him
they were safe, but it’s just out of reach
because when Lawrence was electrocuted the
phone got knocked out of his hand.
He could flip the box around to give him more
reach so he could snag the phone, but just
gives up trying to retrieve it.
Lawrence giving up on getting the phone leads
to him freaking out and irrationally deciding
to cut his leg off so he could shoot Adam
in an attempt to salvage his game.
A little late on that, chief.
If Lawrence had gotten the phone, hearing
how his family was safe would have prevented
this freakout.
Before sawing his leg off at the ankle, he
tries to apply a makeshift tourniquet with
his shirt.
If you’ve seen my other videos, you’d
know his execution is terrible.
He basically under overs his blouse and pulls
it slightly tight like its a fucking shoelace,
and this guy’s supposed to be a surgeon.
There’s no way this adequately cut off blood
circulation.
He finishes sawing his foot off, grabs the
revolver, puts the round in the chamber, and
takes a shot at Adam from across the room.
If you were Lawrence, you’d want to get
as close as possible before firing.
Most people will have trouble hitting a human
size target from 7 yards away.
Zep arrives and tries to kill Lawrence, but
Adam sweeps his leg and bashes his brains
in with the toilet cover.
I’m surprised Adam had it in him.
Nice job.
With the door wide open and Lawrence free
from his shackle, he tells Adam he’s going
to leave and get help.
Adam checks Zeps clothing to see if he had
a key to his shackle, and finds another cassette
player which reveals how Zep was not only
their captor, but another victim in the same
game.
The big twist moment hits when the corpse
dressed as a suicide victim in the middle
of the room gets up and reveals himself to
be Jigsaw.
Realizing your captor was right in front of
you this whole time has to be a bitch of a
revelation.
In the beginning I laid out how this corpse
might not have been dead, and that they should
check it if they get the chance.
However, I don’t think this would have helped.
They had no way of knowing if this was Jigsaw,
and no way of attacking him.
Even if they had gotten free, threatening
and attacking Jigsaw would have just resulted
in them getting electrocuted to death.
When Jigsaw fully wakes up, he tells Adam
that the key to his shackle was in the bathtub.
Yah, it actually went down the drain.
If you wanted the key to serve a purpose you
should have hidden it somewhere else with
clues to it.
It seems like he was trying to tell Adam how
to free himself because, technically, he won
the game.
Adam’s understandably pretty pissed off
right now and tries to kill Jigsaw with Zep’s
pistol, but Jigsaw tasers him before he can
get a shot off.
The movie ends with Jigsaw shutting the door
leaving Adam to die.
Adam trying to kill Jigsaw may have changed
his mind on letting Adam live, but what was
Jigsaw expecting, that Adam was going to be
grateful and cordial?
Later in the sequels we find out that Amanda
was having nightmares about Adam, and had
gone back to the bathroom to put him out of
his misery by suffocating him with a plastic
bag.
Not much mercy for a man who technically won
the game.
What makes Adam’s death even more fucked
up is that after Jigsaw left Adam to die,
he found Lawrence passed out in the hallway
from his attempt to cauterize his leg on a
steam pipe.
Instead of finishing Lawrence off for losing
the game, he allows Lawrence to live, fits
him with a prosthetic foot, and later brings
him on as an apprentice at Team Jigsaw.
Then again, you can’t really expect a serial
killer to be honest and fair with you.
Let’s recap the pivotal moments where a
different decision could have altered who
lived or died.
In my opinion, Zep had the motive and the
means to single-handedly take down Jigsaw
and Amanda.
This would have saved Adam’s life, and ensured
that Lawrence didn’t end up working for
Jigsaw in the future.
Jigsaw left a ton of leads which the detectives
should have been able to use to track him
down.
His voice on the cassettes, Amanda’s testimony,
the penlight, etc.
Ultimately they did, but hesitated to pull
the trigger once they caught him.
Sings death, as well as the pain and suffering
of all Jigsaw’s future victims enabled by
Tapp’s pathetic failure is mindblowing.
Razor wire guy and Hookie guy both might have
been able to escape their traps had they calmed
down and thought things through a bit before
bum-rushing the traps.
All said and done, I think we could have beaten
the Traps from Saw with less life and limb
lost.
Thanks for watching, and remember.. actually,
I don’t really have anything for this.
If you find yourself in one of these situations
you’re probably fucked.
Peace!